The brief fact of the case of the prosecution is that on dtd.
21.03.12 informant Biswajit Pattanaik, lodged the written report in the
Baseli Sahi Police Station, Puri alleging therein that on dtd. 18.03.12
while he was in his home at about 12.42 A.M. he got a telephone
message from one mobile phone bearing No. 098419-49018 to his Cell
phone bearing No. 9437280744 calling him as “ Hello Suchitrarani” “
Got your listing on desi hunt”. Thereafter he immediately verified the
web site where he found a profile opened in his wife's name
Suchitrarani vide member I.D. :-018072 in Desi Hunt.com. He also
found another profile was opened in the same website vide No. 15932
as “ Suchitrarani wife swapping in India, desi couples, Indian”,
wherein his two cell phones No. 94380744 & 98611-69406 were given
for contact. Prior to three months back from that date i.e. on 18.03.12
every day the informant used to get numbers of telephonic calls and
message out of state, that a profile has been opened in his wife's name
in “ Wife sharing Group” ( WSG) and his mobile phone numbers
have been attached there. Due to socieal stigma , prestige he did not
disclose the matter to any one.Being the journalist by profession the informant had published number of news items against the accused Jayant Kumar Das, Managing Partner of one AKJK Enterprisers of Nabakaleba, Puri Town who was lending loans to private persons and has cheated the
innocent poor loanee and grabbed their valuable properties for the
sake of granting loan. In connection with such cheating and
fraudulent practice many criminal cases had been registered against
the accused Jayanta Kumar Das in different police stations of Puri
Town. Being vindictive towards the informant as well as his family
the accused had sent many anonymous petitions against the informant
to different Government Officials as well as State Police Head Quarter,
Cuttack in order to blame the informant. The accused published many
imputations and derogatory posters against the informant and his
school going son and pasted them in differnt conspicuous places of
puri town such as Sidha Mahavir Railway Gate, Level corssing and
Sarvodaya Nagar Railway Gate, A.T.M. Counter, Kendriya Vidyalaya,
Puri and other Government Officials of Puri Town. The accused
projected the informant as a fake journalist and branded his son as
Junior Criminal. In such context, the wife of the informant Smt.
Suchitrarani Pattanaik had filed number of grievances before the
Hon'ble Chief Justice of High Court of Odisha, Hon'ble Lok Pal,
Odisha, Hon'ble Chief Minister, Odisha, Copy to Hon'ble Minister of
State, Women and Child Welfare Department and D.G. of Police,
Odisha, Addl. D.G. to State Human Right Protection Cell, Cuttack, I.G.
of Police, Central Range, Cuttack, District Magistrate Puri, S.P. Puri,
City D.S.P. Puri and I.I.C., Kumbharapada P.S. for taking necessary
action. Being annoyed by the allegation of the wife of the informant
miscreant, Jayanta Kumar Das has comitted the Cyber Crime to
harass the informant as well as his family mentally and emotionally.
In the year 2008 while the informant was working as a
reporter of an oriya daily “ THE PRAJATANTRA” a news item was
published on 08.05.2008 against the said Jayanta Kumar Das and his
money lending farm AKJK Enterprises regarding his fraud and illegal
activities. On the very next day i.e. on 09.05.2008 while the informant
was coming to his home the accused Jayant Kumar Das suddenly
appeared before him behind the Gundicha Temple, Puri at about 2.15
P.M. and showed him a pistol to kill him and hurled slang languages
on him. In that connection he had lodged a complaint before the I.I.C.,
Kumbharapada P.S. which was registered against him vide
Kumbharapada P.S. Case No. 102/08. And after completion of
investigation charge sheet was submitted the accused which is still
pending before the trial court of learned Judicial Magistrate First Class,Puri.On dtd. 24.03.09 the I.I.C. Kumbharapada Police Station had
sent a letter through District Magistrate-Cum- Collector, Puri vide D.R.
No. 958 regarding the illegal activities of the accused Jayanta Kumar
Das and his partner, Ashok Kumar Ratha and his money lending firm
namely, AKJK Enterprises who were using muscle power and different
types of coercive method against the innocent borrowers for which the
people are taking loan were in severe mental stress. Further, the I.I.C.
of Kumbharapada Police Station requested the District Magistrate to
cancel his money lending license of Jayanta Kumar Das. Acting upon
such report of police, the District Magistrate, Puri directed the Sub-
Collector, Puri to take immediate action as per law against the present
accused. In this connection, a news item was published against the
accused in the oriya weekly “The Sambhasa” on dtd. 18.05.2009 in
Volumn No. 1 issue No. 47 and other news paper like “Prajatantra and
Ajikali. On the basis of the written report of the informant, the then
I.I.C. of Baseli Sahi P.S. registered the F.I.R. vide Baselisahi P.S. Case No. 36 dtd. 02.04.2012 U/s. 292/419 I.P.C. r.w. Section 66(C)/67(A) of Information Technology ( Ammendment ) Act, 2008 and requested the
Superintendent of Police, Puri to entrust an Inspector to take up
investigation in this case as the present case was related with Cyber
Crime. As per order of Addl. D.G. of Police, C.I.D., C.B., Odisha, Crime
Branch Cyber Crime Police Station, has taken up the investigation of
the above case and registered it as C.I.D., Crime Branch, Cyber Crime
P.S. Case No. 5 dtd. 24.08.12 U/s. 292/419 I.P.C. r.w. Section 6(c) /
67(A) Information Technology ( Ammendment) Act, 2008. On being
directed Sri A.K. Nayak , Inspector of Cyber Crime P.S., C.I.D., C.B.
took up investigation in this case. The I.O. conducted investigation and
gathered sufficient materials under the alleged offences against
accused Jayanta Kumar Das. During the course of investigation, the
I.O. visited the spot, conducted search and seizure, noticed
authenticated offices for the collection of data, information, sought the
opinion of the expert and collected many documents for the purpose of
documentary evidence. After completion of investigation, the I.O.
submitted charge sheet U/s. 292/465/469/500 I.P.C. r.w. Section
66(C)/67/67(A) of the Information Technology ( Ammendment ) Act,
2008 against the present accused Jayanta Kumar Das . Accordingly
cognizance is taken. Hence this case.Considering the evidences adduced on behalf of the prosecution the rival contentions of the defence so also the argument of thelearned Special A.P.P. it has been conclued that the accused is the master mind and the author of such nefarious activities of sending unsolicitated e-mails which are obscene and lascivious posing the
threat to the social security and image of the informant and his family.
Accordingly the prosecution succeeds in bringing the alleged offences
U/s. 292/465/469/500 I.P.C. r.w. Section 66(C)/67/67(A) of the
Information Technology Act,2008 home.As a result, the accused Jayanta Kumar Das is found guilty U/s.292/465/469/500 I.P.C. r.w. Section 66(C)/67/67(A) of the Information Technology Act,2008 and convicted thereon U/s. 248(2) of Cr.P.C.
