The above appellants were tried before the learned Additional Sessions Judge along with two others by name Ikrar (A-l) and Shahid (A-2) for charges under Section 452 IPC, Section 392 IPC and Section 397 IPC read with Section 34 IPC. A-3 (Haroon) was also charged for an offence under
section 25 of the Arms Act. The sum and substance of the prosecution case was that on 9.11.1991 at about 7.15 p.m. when PW-3 (Bal Kishan) was witnessing a TV programme in the inner room of hishouse in the company of his wife, PW-10 (Smt. Raj Rani), the accused persons entered their house
and when PW-3 (Bal Kishan) came out of the room and was told by one of the four persons that they were sent by one Mahabir Thekedar for white washing of their house, PW-3 (Bal Kishan) was said tohave told one of them that he only had already white washed the house and enquired about the need for it again. As the conversation was said to be going on like that the accused closed the door andone of the boys took out a country-made pistol and other took out their knives and by using such threat with such weapons they pushed PW-3 (Bal Kishan) and PW-10 (Smt. Raj Rani) inside and demanded the keys of the almirah. PW-10 (Smt. Raj Rani) the wife seems to have told them that the keys were with her daughter who reside at a different place. But she was not believed and they
started searching all around inside for the keys and as this was in progress, PW-2 one of the relatives also arrived there. At that point of time one of the boys opened the door and brought the new corner also inside and ordered them all to hand over their belongings which
included a sum Rs. 1400 and Rs. 200 from Manoj Kumar PW-2. When the search was being made by them one of the accused asked for the sten gun and in the process they were able to lay their hands on the sten gun belonging to the father of PW-3 (Bal Kishan). Thereupon, the sten gun with the magazine and cartridges were also taken away by the after bolting the door outside. On an alarm raised by the inmates, it appears the neighbours came and opened the door. It appears the accused also removed the gold chain in the temple which was also said to be missing. Thereafter Police report was said to have been lodged and on completion of investigation during which the sten gun, magazine and cartridges were said to have been recovered, charges were laid against the accused as noticed above. A-2 (Shahid), absconded and was also declared as Proclaimed offender, after following procedure under Sections 82 & 83 of
the Cr. P.C.The accused denied the charges and thereupon the trial was con-ducted. Apart from the prosecution witnesses examined and the exhibits marked one Shahid Raza was examined as Defence-witness.
After consid-ering the materials on record, the learned trial Judge came to the conclusion that the charges against the accused stood sufficiently proved and estab-lished and convicted them under Sections 452, 392 and 397 read with Section 34 IPC. A-3 (Haroon) was further convicted under
Section 25 of the Arms Act. Thereunder, seven years R.I. with a fine of Rs. 5000 each was imposed for the offence under Section 397 IPC and in default one year RI was also imposed. Under Section 392 IPC three years' R.I. and a fine of Rs. 3000 was imposed with a default clause therefor. A
further sentence of three years' R.I. with a fine of Rs. 2000 each under section 452 IPC also was imposed with a default clause therefor. All the sentences were ordered to run concurrently withfurther benefits under Section 428 Cr. P.C. So far as A-3 (Haroon) is concerned, he was sentenced inaddition to undergo 2 years' RI for the offence under section 25 of the Arms Act. Aggrieved A-3 (Haroon) filed Crl. Appeal No.225/1998. A-4 (Asfaq) filed Crl. Appeal 293/1998 and A-1 (Ikrar)filed Crl. A. 155/1998 before the High Court. The learned Single Judge in the High Court considered the materials on record by undertaking an independent appreciation of the evidence let in and ultimately affirmed the conviction and sentence imposed, as well. Hence, these appeals.So far as the contention urged as to the applicability of Section 397 IPC and the alleged lack of proof of the necessary ingredients therefor, is concerned it proceeds, in our view, upon a misconception that unless the deadly weapon has been actually used to inflict any injury in the commission of the offence as such, the essential ingredient to attract the said provision could not be held to have beenproved and substantiated. We are of the view that the said claim on behalf of the appellants proceeds upon a too narrow construction of the provision and meaning of the words "Uses" found in Section 397 IPC. As a matter of fact, this Court had an occasion to deal with the question is the decision reported in AIR 1975 SC 905 (Phool Kumar v. Delhi Administratiori) and it was observed as
follows :Section 398 uses the expression "armed with any deadly weapon" and the minimum punishment  rovided therein is also 7 years if at the time of attempting to commit robbery the offender is armed with any deadly weapon. this has created an anomaly. It is unreasonable to think that if the offender who merely attempted to commit robbery but did not succeed in committing it attracts the minimum punishment of 7 years under Section 398, if he is merely armed with any deadly weapon,while an offender so armed will not incur the liability to the minimum punishment under section 397 if he succeeded in committing the robbery. But then, what was the purport behind the use of thedifferent words by the Legislature in the two sections, viz. "Uses" in Section 397 and "is armed" in Section 398. In our judgment the anomaly is resolved if the two terms are given the identical meaning. There seems to be a reasonable explanation for the use of the two different expressions in the sections. When the offence of robbery is committed by an offender being armed with a deadly weapon which was within the vision of the victim so as to be capable of creating a terror in his mind, the offender must be deemed to have used that deadly weapon in the commission of the robbery. On
the other hand, if an offender was armed with a deadly weapon at the time of attempting to commit a robbery, then the weapon was not put to any fruitful use because it would have been of use only when the offender succeeded in committing the robbery."
