After hearing the learned counsel for the parties at length, we find from the order passed by the Single Bench that elaborate discussion was made. In order
dated 13.7.2010, Single Judge observed: “Upon considering the aforementioned submissions as also perusing the materials on record, this Court is of the opinion that the
appointment of the petitioners made by one Ram Yatan Paswan, the then Regional Deputy Director of Education, Magadh Division, Gaya in between August, 1994 to December, 1995
were not only out and out illegal but also tainted with malice and fraud, For coming to such conclusion, this Court has perused the entire materials on record which depict a
very sad state of affairs. In this context what really strikes at the root of the matter is the alleged claim of manner of appointment of the petitioners, inasmuch as, on 22nd July,
1994 the process of selection is said to have started by issuance of a letter of interview to the petitioners fixing the date of such interview on 28.7.1994. The said letters are
claimed to have been issued from the office of R.D.D.E., Gaya and has been allegedly sent to the petitioners stationed at different places in the district of Gaya, Jehanabad,
Nalanda, Patna and Nawada. All such interview call letters have been claimed to be sent by UPC (Under Postal Certificate) as is apparent from one of them Annexure – 1 in
CWJC No. 2420 of 1997. Such interview was also confined to only 12 persons and therefore, whenever a question of illegality would arise, a basic question would be as to
whether the employment exchange of Gaya had actually been approached by the R.D.D.E. Gaya by way of any requisition for sending the names and whether the R.D.D.E. had received
such requisitioned names from employment exchange, Gaya. It is the affidavit of successor in the office of Ram Yatan Paswan, the R.D.D.E., Gaya who had appointed the
petitioners that there was not a chit of paper of entire selection of the petitioners available in his office. If this aspect of the matter is further examined in the backdrop of the
manner of appointment, it becomes absolutely clear that the documents were manufactured by Mr. Ram Yatan Paswan, the then R.D.D.E., Gaya to justify such perverse selection and
appointment of the petitioners. This in fact becomes more clear from the documents filed by the petitioners themselves that prior to 22.7.1994 when the interview call letter was
issued by Mr. Ram Yatan Paswan in his individual capacity, the matter relating to their appointment was never placed before the Divisional Establishment Committee which is
the appointing authority under the 1974 Rules. In fact, from reading of the letter dated 23.7.1994, it would transpire that the agenda for a meeting of the Committee to be
held on 29.7.1994 was drawn in which there was also one of the items relating to appointment on the post of Clerk. From the merit list prepared by the R.D.D.E. in the
date of 29.7.1994 containing the signature of all the members of the committee, it however becomes clear that since typing test was held in their presence, either the selection was
held at Gaya on 28.7.1994 whereas the interview itself was fixed for 29.7.1994. The meeting of the Committee was said to be however held at Kakolat, at least 100 kilometers away from Gaya and therefore both
of them cannot be correct, inasmuch as, the petitioners and other candidates, 12 in all, had admittedly no information through their interview call letter dated 22.7.1994 about
the meeting of the Establishment Committee or selection being undertaken at Kakolat and the members of the Establishment Committee had no knowledge of selection being made at Gaya
because their notice dated 23.7.1994 as contained in Annexure-2 would only go to show the venue of meeting at Kakolat, Dak Banglow. Thus, it becomes absolutely clear to this
Court that the entire story starting from interview call letter dated 22.7.1994 and ending with the meeting of Committee on 29.7.1994 in which the entire exercise sending of interview call letter and up to
preparation of merit list had been completed in a space of seven days only by process of manufacturing the documents for espousing the cause of these seven petitioners.”
The aforesaid discussion and other observations and findings recorded by the Single Bench have not been adverted to by the Division Bench of the High Court. Thus, we are of the opinion that the order
passed by the Division Bench is liable to be set aside and the same is hereby set aside. We request the Division Bench to decide the matters afresh duly considering the reasons employed by the Single Bench
while deciding the case. It is made clear that we have not commented on the merits of the case. The High Court has to decide the case unfettered by any observations made in this order.
Let the matters be heard and decided by the Division Bench as expeditiously as possible. The appeals are allowed to the aforesaid extent.