Leave granted.
We have heard the learned counsel on either side at length and perused the material available on record. The appellants are before us by way of the
above appeals assailing the order passed by the High Court of Madras in Criminal Original Petition No. 14452 of 2017, dated 26.07.2017 in an
application filed by them under Section 438, Cr.P.C. seeking anticipatory bail. The appellant S.S. Rajendran in Criminal Appeal No. 1957 of 2017 is the husband of the
appellant Farhana in Criminal Appeal No. 1958 of 2017 to whom this Court has on 27-10-2017 granted permission to file S.L.P. as she was not a party
before the High Court, but concerned with the case on hand. The brief facts leading to these appeals, as appear from the record, are that one Begum was
the original owner of a property bearing D/No. 9A,Parasakthi Nagar, 1st Main Road, Sembakkam and on 2nd November, 1993 she got a power of attorney
registered in favour of Mohammed Shafi (anex-serviceman), father-in-law of the appellant S.S.Rajendran and father of appellant Farhana. Later on
20th October, 2000, after cancelling the earlier power of attorney, the original owner Begum has got another power of attorney registered in favour of
appellant S.S. Rajendran. For all the three documents, Respondent No. 2 herein, who is mother-in-law of the appellant S.S. Rajendran and
mother of appellant Farhana, attested as witness.On 28th May, 2002 appellant S.S. Rajendran being power of attorney holder, executed a settlement
deed in favour of his wife Farhana (appellant) and handed over possession of the property to her. Resultantly, Respondent No. 2 was dispossessed and
both the appellants herein occupied the property.On 9th July, 2017 Respondent No. 2 lodged a complaint against her son-in-law (appellant herein)
under Sections 406, 420, 468, 471 and 506(1) of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. Her specific complaint is that the appellant Rajendran on the strength of a
fraudulent power of attorney, executed the settlement deed in faovur of his wife and illegally trespassed and occupied the property after
forcefully dispossessing her. In pursuance of the said complaint, appellant S.S. Rajendran moved the High Court seeking anticipatory bail. While rejecting his
application for anticipatory bail, the High Court has made some observations on the merits of the title dispute between the parties despite it being
purely of civil nature. In addition to that, in para 10 of its order, the High Court issued some directions to the police, which read thus:
“10. Mr. H. Krishnamurthy, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Selaiyur is present before this Court today. He is directed to give sufficient protection to
the widow of the Ex-serviceman to take possession of her own property and ensure that her possession is not threatened by the accused”.
We are not able to appreciate the directions given by the High Court to the police with regard to providing security, delivery of
possession in an application filed under Section 438 of Cr.P.C. seeking anticipatory bail. The High Court travelled beyond the scope of application in
question and went on to decide the rights of the parties in respect of an immovable property and the validity of a registered agreement which is under
the jurisdiction of a Civil Court.In view of above discussion, we are not inclined to interfere with the order passed by the High Court as far as rejection of anticipatory bail
is concerned, but insofar as the observations and directions made in para 10 are concerned, we hereby set aside them. The parties are, however, at liberty to take appropriate recourse as per law
before the appropriate forum for settling their rights over the disputed property. We make it clear that we have not expressed any opinion on the merits of the case.
The appeals are accordingly disposed of.
