We have heard learned counsel for the parties at length. Leave granted. The challenge is the order dated 5.2.2014 passed by the High Court of Jharkhand at Ranchi in
Criminal Miscellaneous Petition No. 01 of 2013, whereby the High Court quashed the entire criminal proceedings against the respondent herein (Accused
No.4), registered under Section 120-B, 193 and 420 of the Indian Penal Code and also under Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of the Prevention of
Corruption Act, 1988 (hereafter referred to as Act, 1988 as well). Suffice it to say, that a complaint was lodged before the Court of Vigilance, Ranchi alleging
therein that two ministers Mr. Hari Narayan Rai and Mr. Anosh Ekka had acquired huge properties by abusing their official position. The investigation
was handed over to the Central Bureau of Investigation. During investigation, it revealed that Anosh Ekka had also acquired properties in the
name of his wife Mrs. Menon Ekka, who had filed an application before the (Deputy Commissioner Land Reforms (DCLR) seeking permission in terms of Section
46 of the Chota Nagpur Tenancy Act (CNT Act) to purchase the land situated within Ormajhi and Sadar Police Station. So far as the present respondent is
concerned, he, at the relevant time, was holding the office of L.R.D.C. (Land Reforms Deputy Collector), an authority who was entrusted with the duty of
granting permission for land sales. The essence of the allegation is that in terms of Section 46(1) and 48 of the C.N.T. Act, land belonging to members of
the Scheduled Tribes was transferable within the members of the same group, who at the same time, were residents of the same police station where the land,
in question, was situated but in the instant case, the respondent, in connivance with the other accused persons, who at the relevant time, were Circle
Officers and Karamcharies and being fully aware of the fact that the land was not situated within the police station, within the territory of which the
respondent was a resident, granted permission for sale in order to allegedly appease the concerned Minister. After the completion of investigation, charge
sheet was submitted against several concerned Circle Officers and Karamcharies as well as the present respondent endorsing the allegation. Aggrieved, the
respondent moved the High Court under Section 482 of the Criminal Procedure Code to quash the FIR/proceedings against him and by the impugned
order, the same has been done. Mr. Tushar Mehta, learned Additional Solicitor General has referred to some portions of the charge
sheet and has submitted that from the perusal thereof it transpires that there are sufficient materials in support of the charge levelled against the respondent
and thus, at this stage of the criminal proceedings, which is mainly for consideration of framing of charge, the High Court was in error in quashing the
proceedings. Apart therefrom, Mr. Mehta has also drawn our attention to the orders passed by this Court dismissing the challenge of two co-accused
namely; Brajesh Mishra (Accused No.10) and Goverdhan Baitha (Accused No.14), who had approached this Court being aggrieved by the rejection of their prayer by
the High Court for quashing of the proceedings against them. As against this, Ms. Meenakshi Arora, learned senior counsel appearing on behalf of the respondent
has argued that, as would be evident from the charge sheet, the respondent in the capacity as LRDC, as was required, had acted on the reports furnished by his
subordinate and therefore, by no means, any culpability or mens rea can be attributed to him. According to her, in the exercise of powers conferred
under Article 136 of the Constitution of India, no interference is called for. We have applied ourselves to the rival submissions. For obvious reasons, we would not delve
deep into the disclosures made in the charge sheet, except to the extent necessary. Suffice it to mention that the charge sheet reveals that for the
purpose of granting permission for the sale of the land, certain inputs were required to be obtained by the LRDC, i.e. the respondent for a final decision.
It will be appropriate to extract the relevant portion of the charge sheet :- “Investigation has revealed that the sellers of the above plots of
land obtained permission from the Land Reforms Deputy Collector (LRDC), Ranchi. The purchaser, Smt. Menon Ekka, though, a member of the
Scheduled Tribes, is not a resident of the area within the jurisdiction of the police station in which these plots of land are situated. She,
dishonestly and fraudulently, deceived the sellers and the LRDC into believing that she was the resident of the same police station
as the sellers. In order to achieve her fraudulent goal, she mentioned false residential address and, in a few instances, submitted false
affidavits also, to this effect. Investigation has further revealed that, in keeping with the statutory provisions aforesaid of the
CNT Act, a checklist has bee formulated in which the LRDC obtains reports from the concerned circle offices to see whether the above
conditions are fulfilled. In this checklist/report, the concerned circle offices are required to mention, inter-alia, the details of
land already in possession of the purchaser in the jurisdiction of the concerned police station. This test alone is sufficient to indicate
whether the purchaser belongs to the same police station or not. However, the LRDCs, their staff and the circle offices connived with
Smt. Menon Ekka and Sri Anosh Ekka and, in spite of the fact that Smt.Menon Ekka was not the resident of the area under the jurisdiction of
the concerned police station, they recommended transfer of land to her. In a few cases, when the concerned Circle Office did not send any
report, the LRDC obtained favourable report from the staff posted under him and accorded the permission for transfer of land.”
It is a matter of record that after the charge
sheet was submitted, the concerned authority, by its
order dated 25.8.2012, on a consideration of
materials on record had also granted sanction under
Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973
as well as Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption
Act, 1988, for the prosecution of the respondent
under Section 120B/193/420 of the Indian Penal Code
and Section 13(2) read with Section 13(1)(d) of the
Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. The charge-sheet
thus in essence alleges connivance between the LRDC
including the Respondent and the staff to secure
favourable report for according permission for sale
in favour of Smt. Menon Ekka.
Having regard to the stage of the proceedings, it
will be wholly inappropriate on our part to presently
indulge in an in-depth analysis of the materials on
record. Suffice it to state at this stage, that on a
consideration of contents of the above quoted
extracts from the charge sheet and the fact that
sanction had been accorded by the competent
authority, assuredly on a conscious consideration
thereof, we are of the view that the quashing of the
proceedings against the respondent in the face of the
available materials on record was not called for.
In this regard, we also refer to the findings
recorded by the High Court, in its order dated
13.3.2015 in Crl.M.P.No. 2791 of 2012, Crl.M.P. No.
2843 of 2012 and Crl.M.P. No. 2751 of 2012 as
referred so hereinabove and challenge whereto had
been dismissed by this Court by orders dated 8.5.2015
and 15.5.2015 qua Accused No.10 and Accused No.14.
We notice that there is a finding on the same issue,
that co-accused Brajeshwar Mahto, who, at the
relevant point of time was posted as Karamchari in
the legal cell as well as with the respondent had
submitted a report on being asked to do so by the
respondent that the purchaser was a resident of the
area of the same police station, though it was not
so. Having regard to the scope of scrutiny of the
materials so produced by the prosecution at the
present stage and more particularly in the context of
the prayer for quashing of the criminal prosecution
involved, we have no hesitation to hold that the
impugned order is wholly unmerited.
In view of the above, we set aside the impugned
order passed by the High Court and direct the trial
Court to proceed with the case in accordance with
law, however without in any way being influenced by
any observation made hereinabove.
The appeal is, accordingly, allowed in the above
terms.