These appeals arise out of the judgment dated 15.01.2009 passed by the High Court of Punjab and Haryana in and by which the High Court affirmed the conviction of the
appellants under Sections 148, 395, 506, 336 read with Section 149 IPC and reduced the sentence of imprisonment from five years to 2 ½ years.
Briefly stated the case of the prosecution is that on 01.12.1990, the appellant nos. 1 and 2 along with other coaccused have entered into the house of the complainant -
Gurbax Singh (PW-1) in the midnight at 12 O’clock. The accused threatened Gurbax Singh (PW-1) and his wife Bhajan Kaur and demanded for money, and Rs.12,700/- was handed over
by PW-1 to those accused persons in order to save himself. The accused demanded further money and the accused Nirmal Singh @ Nima fired a shot in the air to show that he was
carrying a real sten gun. Further case of prosecution is that the complainant PW-1 was taken out of the house again and he was threatened. PW-1 complainant pleaded with the
accused that he has a widowed daughter and that there is nobody to support her and pleaded with the accused to spare his life. The accused told PW-1 that they will spare his
life only if he can arrange for Rs.1,00,000/-. It is alleged that on 05.12.1990, PW-1 complainant went to Gurudwara and requested the accused Baba Jafarwal for extension of time
for payment of amount and time was extended upto 12.12.1990. PW-1 Gurbax Singh went to the office of the Superintendent, CRPF and lodged the complaint and accused Sukhdev Singh and
Nirmal Singh were arrested. Upon completion of investigation, charge-sheet was filed against the accused including the appellants.
Upon consideration of evidence of PW-1 (Gurbax Singh) and his wife Bhajan kaur, the Trial Court held that the prosecution has established the guilt of the accused, beyond
reasonable doubt and convicted them under Sections 148, 395, 506, 336 read with Section 149 IPC and sentenced them to undergo R.I. for five years.
In appeal, the High Court upheld the verdict of conviction of the appellants; but reduced the sentence of imprisonment from five years to 2 ½ years as aforesaid.
We have heard Ms. Suvarna Ganu, learned amicus on behalf of the appellants as well as Ms. Mandakini Singh, learned counsel appearing for the State.
PW-1 complainant and his wife Bhajan Kaur saw the accused for brief time and the identification of the accused cannot be assailed. Both PW-1 and PW-2 have identified the
accused including the appellants viz. Dhian Singh and Jarnail Singh. As rightly pointed out by the Trial Court, PW- 1 had no animosity to falsely implicate the appellantsaccused.
The Trial Court as well as the High Court held that the evidence of PW-1 and his wife Bhajan Kaur are credible and trustworthy and recorded conviction. We do not find any
reason to interfere with the concurrent findings of the Courts below. Since the occurrence was of the year 1990 and considering the facts and circumstances of the case, the
sentence of imprisonment of 2 ½ years imposed on the appellants is reduced to the period of one year and the appeals are partly allowed.
We place on record the valuable assistance rendered by Ms. Suvarna Ganu, learned amicus who argued the matter on behalf of the appellants.