We have heard the learned Amicus, the learned ASG and learned counsel for the parties. A very brief status report has been presented in the Court
today. On going through the brief status report, we find that the Ministry of Home Affairs has committed itself to open the Beta version of the 
portal for online cyber crime reporting. The public launch of the Beta version is expected in the last week of April,2018. It is also stated that 
connectivity of the portal has been tested with Maharashtra, Kerala, UP and Chandigarh. The process is underway to establish connectivity with all other 
States/UTs and efforts have been made to integrate as many States as possible before the launch date. Our attention has also been drawn to the recommendation made
by the Committee against Proposal 2 which is to the effect that there is a need for a Central Reporting Mechanism as has been done
in other countries particularly in the United States. Orally, we have been told that some progress has been made in this regard but this is a very scattered sort of submission made
before us. We have also been informed by learned counsel for the parties that there are several other Ministries that are interested in
similar issues such as Ministry of Women and Child Development.Learned ASG informs us that the Ministry of Electronics, Information and Technology is also interested in taking corrective
steps in so far as cyber crimes are concerned particularly those relating to rape / gang rape / child pornography. It would, of course, be in the interest of all concerned if
the Central Reporting Mechanism is set up. Orally, we have been informed that some sort of systems are in place. We would like to have a comprehensive and detailed status
report from the Ministry of Home Affairs informing us about the progress made keeping in view the fact that there is a road map
already indicated in the affidavit dated 1st December, 2015 and other subsequent affidavits. The status report will deal with all
these issues in a comprehensive manner. We would also like to know from the parties before us before the next date of hearing about the status of progress made pursuant
to the recommendations accepted by these entities as mentioned in the Report of the Committee. List the matter on 11th May, 2018 at 2.00 pm as a first item.
It is made clear that on the next date of hearing also the proceedings will be held in-camera.

