Delay condoned.
Being aggrieved and dissatisfied by the judgment and order dated 23/24.9.1996 passed in Criminal Appeal No.461/1991 by the High Court of Bombay, the appellants (original accused nos.3 and 4) have preferred this
appeal. In Sessions Case No.939/1989, they were acquitted by the Addl.Sessions Judge, Bombay by judgment and order dated 7th, 8th and 11th February, 1991. As their acquittal was reversed by the High Court, this
appeal is filed.Prosecution case in brief is that one Harishchandra PW2 was residing at Goregaon with his two sons and was running a shop dealing in cement
since 1980 which was situated at a distance of 500 paces from his residential premises. On the date of the incident i.e. 18.6.1989 after collecting a cash of Rs.40,000/- he alongwith his two sons Ashok Kumar PW3 and Ratan
deceased was returning at his house. It is also stated when Ratan and Harishchandra were proceeding towards their house and Ratan was entering partly opened gate of the compound of their residential premises,
Harishchandra saw a boy waiting near the gate and rushing towards him. On seeing the boy rushing towards him, Harishchandra turned around to seek help and at that time he noticed that three other persons were also running
towards him. One boy, who rushed from the gateside gave a blow on his head. Seeing this, deceased Ratan dropped his bag and turned around and attempted to hold the hand with which a blow was being dealt on the head of
PW2. After receiving the injuries PW2 fell down but managed to prevent the boy from snatching the bag from his custody. During that incident, deceased Ratan tried to push the accused and in the process all the four
accused converged him and gave him blows with their weapons. Two of the assailants were armed with Choppers and one with a knife. After Ratan was overpowered, one of the assailants took away the bag which was in the hand
of Harishchandra by giving a blow on his right hand. After snatching away two bags all the four assailants ran away with the bags and their weapons. After seeking the four assailants snatching two bags from his father and
brother and assaulting them, PW3 Ashok started shouting for help. One of the members of the public informed the incident at the police station. Ratan who was unconscious was taken to the hospital in a rickshaw by the
constable and was declared dead. Constable informed the police station regarding the incident and the SHO recovered the statement of Harishchandra. After carrying out the investigation all the four accused
were charged for the offence punishable under Sections 392 read with 34, Section 394, Section 302 read with Section 34 and Section 307 read with Section 34 of IPC. Further Accused Nos. 1 to 3 were further charged under
section 397 read with section 392 and accused No 4 was charged under section 397 read with section 114 IPC. After considering the evidence, the learned Addl. Sessions Judge, Bombay convicted accused nos.1 and 2 but
acquitted accused nos.3 and 4 by giving them benefit of doubt. That order was challenged before the High Court by filing Criminal Appeal No.461/1991 by the State of Maharashtra. The convicted accused filed
Criminal Appeal Nos. 239 and 514 of 1991. The High Court by the impugned judgment and order dated 23/24.9.1996 dismissed the appeals filed by accused nos.1 and 2 and allowed the appeal filed by the State of
Maharashtra and reversed the judgment rendered by the Addl. Sessions Judge, Bombay and convicted them for the offences for which they were charged. At the time of the hearing of this appeal, learned counsel appearing
for the appellants-accused submitted that the judgment and order passed by the High Court convicting the present appellants is illegal and erroneous. She submitted that against accused nos.3 and 4, evidence is not sufficient to
connect them with the crime. It is her submission that so-called recovery of bag from the house of accused no.3 ought not to have been relied upon by the learned Addl. Sessions Judge to convict accused no.3. She also
submitted that except for identification by the PWs 2 and 3, there is no other evidence connecting accused no.4 with the crime and, therefore, the learned Addl. Sessions Judge rightly acquitted accused nos.3 and 4.
In our view, it cannot be said that the High Court committed any error in reversing the acquittal order passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge. The learned Additional Sessions Judge committed manifest error in
discarding the evidence of PW2 and PW3 for convicting accused nos.3 and 4. The learned Additional Sessions Judge has believed their evidence as a whole, still however for unjustifiable reasons he arrived at the conclusion
that they are required to be given benefit of doubt. In the present case, it is admitted position that on the date of incident accused no.3 was arrested at about 10.15 p.m. from the Santacruz Railway Station under the Bombay
Police Act. At that time from his possession Rampuria knife was found. Thereafter, on 21.6.1989 accused nos.1 and 2 were apprehended at about 1.30 p.m. and on 23.6.1989 i.e. within two days of arrest, identification
parade was held in presence of Special Executive Magistrate. PWs 2 and 3 correctly identified the said accused. There is no reason to doubt their evidence. Further, at the instance of accused no.3 on 24.6.1989 a rexin bag
containing bill books, two cloth bags and clothes belonging to PW2 were discovered from his house. For this there is no explanation given accused No. 3. In this appeal, recovery of other items at the instance of accused
nos.1 and 2 is not required to be mentioned. Thereafter, on 27.7.1989, accused no. 4 was apprehended by the police and his custody was taken over by the Goregaon police. His identification parade was also held on
8.8.1989. PW2 and PW3 identified him. Nothing has been pointed for not relying upon this evidence. Further, there is no reason to doubt the evidence of PW9 Special Executive Magistrate. Hence, it cannot be said that the High
Court has committed any error in reversing the acquittal order passed by the learned Additional Sessions Judge. In the result, the appeal fails and is dismissed.
