The appeal is allowed in terms of the signed order. The conviction of the accused appellants under Section 306 IPC and the sentence passed thereunder by
the trial court and the High Court are set aside. Bipin Kumar Rai, accused appellant No. 1 is in jail. He shall be set at liberty forthwith. Meera Devi,
accused appellant No. 2 is on bail. She need not surrender to her bail bonds which shall stand discharged. The accused appellants, respectively the son
and the mother, were charged for offences under Sections 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act, 1961 and Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code. The trial court
found them guilty. On appeal the High Court has found charge under Sections 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act not substantiated against the accused appellants and
acquitted them by allowing the appeal in that regard. However, the conviction under Section 306 IPC has been maintained alongwith sentence of four years R.I.
each. Feeling aggrieved, the accused appellants have filed this appeal by special leave. The deceased Shanti Kumari Rai was married to
accused appellant - Bipin Kumar Rai in the month of May, 1984. According to the prosecution, articles worth Rs. 4,000/- and cash to the tune of Rs.
15,000/- were given by way of dowry to the in-laws. However, the in-laws persisted in demanding further dowry. The deceased - Shanti Kumari was not allowed
to go back to her parents’ house by the in-laws unless and until an amount of Rs. 5,000/- in cash and a new motorcycle was given to them. On 20th April, 1986,
the marriage of brother of the deceased was fixed. For that purpose, Ram Dev Rai - P.W.-8, father of the deceased; Ram Charitar Rai - P.W.-1, father’s uncle
of the deceased; Ram Narayan Rai - P.W.-2, a neighbour of P.W.-8; and Ram Bishesh Rai - P.W.-3, son-in-law of Ram Dev Rai had gone to take the
deceased so that she could participate in her brother’s marriage. The two appellants did not allow her to go. On the same day, Shanti Kumari died an
unnatural death. The factum of death was reported to police. At the time of death, the two appellants and their servant Sant Lal Mahto were to be found in the
house. All the three were arrested. After investigation the challan, complaining of commission of offences under Sections 3 and 4 of Dowry
Prohibition Act and under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code was filed. On trial, Sant Lal Mahto was acquitted by the trial court.
Insofar as charge under Sections 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act is concerned, the accused appellants have been acquitted of the charge and
therefore, we need not deal with the facts and the evidence relating thereto. We will confine ourselves to dealing with the charge under Section 306 of the
Indian Penal Code. The evidence relevant to this charge consists of statements of four witnesses i.e. P.W.-1, 2, 3 and 8. Taking the statements of these
four witnesses at their face value, all that these witnesses have stated is that they had gone to take Shanti Devi but she was not allowed to go with them by
the accused appellants. The exact reason for which the deceased was not allowed to accompany her father and others is doubtful inasmuch as according to Ram
Dev Rai, P.W.-8, himself the two accused appellants had refused the deceased Shanti Kumari to accompany them by saying that she was ill and having said so the
two appellants and their servant - Sant Lal Mahto had closed the door. They were not allowed to meet the deceased and, therefore, they returned back.
Having carefully perused all the evidence adduced by the prosecution we are satisfied that a case under Section 306 I.P.C. cannot be said to have
been made out on the evidence adduced. Under Section 306 I.P.C. if any person commits suicide, whoever abets the commission of such suicide is liable to be
punished in accordance therewith. Abetment is defined in Section 107 of the I.P.C. as under: "107. Abetment of a thing - A person@@
BBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBBB abets the doing of a thing, who -- First - Instigates any person to do that thing; or Secondly - Engages with one or more
other person or persons in any conspiracy for the doing of that thing, if an act or illegal omission takes place in pursuance of that conspiracy,
and in order to the doing of that thing; or Thirdly - Intentionally aids, by any act or illegal omission, the doing of that thing.
Explanation 1. - A person who by wilful misrepresentation, or by wilful concealment of a material fact which he is bound to disclose, voluntarily causes or procures, or
attempts to cause or procure, a thing to be done, is said to instigate the doing of that thing. Explanation 2. - Whoever, either prior to
or at the time of the commission of an act, does anything in order to facilitate the commission of that act, and thereby
facilitate the commission thereof, is said to aid the doing of that act." There is no evidence adduced on behalf of the
prosecution, nor any facts and circumstances are available on record, from where it can be inferred that the deceased was instigated by any of the accused
appellants into committing suicide or any of the accused appellants had engaged in any conspiracy for committing of suicide by the deceased or any one of
them had intentionally aided, by any act or illegal omission, in the committing of suicide by the deceased. The post mortem on the dead body of the
deceased was performed by Dr. Ved Bhanu Prasad. According to him, there was an abrasion over left wrist of the deceased of 1" x 1/6" size and except
this minor injury there was no other external or internal injury found on the body of the deceased. Viscera was preserved for chemical analysis. Dr. Ved
Bhanu Prasad stated that cause of death could not be ascertained and depended on the report of chemical examination of viscera. What happened to chemical
examination of viscera and whether any report was received or not, is not clear from the record. The investigation officer has also not been examined by
prosecution.
The trial court as also the High Court have
built up a hypothesis of the deceased having committed
the suicide by reference to the evidence of two
defence witnesses who are neighbours of the
accused-appellants and who had collected at the door
of the appellants after the incident. They had seen
Shanti Devi, the deceased, lying on a cot stating that
she had consumed some tablets of insecticides in the
morning. According to Ram Dev Rai - P.W.-8, a plastic
bottle was lying near Shanti Devi in which in Hindi
and English word ‘sulphos’ was written, but this
bottle does not appear to have been seized and sent
for examination by chemical examiner.
On the record, there is no material available
to record a positive finding whether Shanti Kumari had
suffered a suicidal death. The death could have been
suicidal or accidental. As neither it is proved that
the deceased died a suicidal death nor it is proved
that any of the accused appellants had abetted the
commission of suicide - assuming that if it was a case
of suicide, in our opinion, the accused appellants
could not have been held guilty of an offence
punishable under Section 306 of the Indian Penal Code.
From the singular fact of the deceased having died an
unnatural death whilst in the house of her in-laws an
inference as to her having been abetted into
committing suicide cannot be drawn more so when charge
under Sections 3 and 4 of Dowry Prohibition Act has
failed and not appealed against by State or the
complainant.
For the foregoing reasons, the appeal is
allowed. The conviction of the accused appellants
under Section 306 IPC and the sentence passed
thereunder by the trial court and the High Court are
set aside. Bipin Kumar Rai, accused appellant No. 1
is in jail. He shall be set at liberty forthwith.
Meera Devi, accused appellant No. 2 is on bail. She
need not surrender to her bail bonds which shall stand
discharged.
