Leave granted.
2. Heard the learned counsel appearing for the appellants–
complainants and the learned Senior counsel/learned counsel
appearing for the respondents at length.
3. This appeal was filed by the appellants–complainants seeking to
cancel the interim protection granted to Respondent No.2accused.
It appears that Respondent No.2 is a Builder and he has entered into
agreements with several prospective purchasers and there are
allegations that he has not fulfilled his obligations and cheated the
people and cases were filed against him and one of the said cases is
First Information Report No.0001 dated 02012015,Police Station  Economic Offences Wing, which was registered against the Developer and its Directors including Respondent No.2 under Sections 120B,406 and 420 of the I.P.C. In the said matter, Respondent No.2 evaded investigation and he was declared a proclaimed offender.Consequently, Respondent No.2 moved bail application before the Additional Sessions Judge, Saket court, New Delhi. Initially, the Additional Sessions Judge, Saket Court granted interim bail which was later on cancelled vide its Order dated 08032018
and the matter is still pending there. Subsequently, order 08032018
was challenged before the High Court of Delhi and the High Court, on 16032018,passed the following order:
“For the foregoing reasons, impugned order dated 8th March, 2018 is set aside to the extent it cancels the interim bail of petitioner. However, petitioner shall make genuine endeavour to settle the matter with the
remaining complainants in the present FIR. Petitioner shall also appear before the Investigating Officer as and when he is called upon to do so.”
4. We are informed by the learned counsel appearing for the complainants that the said order was passed by the High Court without giving any notice to them. Moreover, on perusal of the impugned order, we find that the High Court has not indicated any reason to interfere with the order of Additional Sessions Judge, Saket Court, cancelling the interim bail granted to Respondent No.2. Mr. R.Basant, learned Senior counsel appearing for Respondent No.2–accused pointed out that his client has made efforts to settle the disputes with several prospective buyers and the huge amount has already been paid. He requests that his client may be allowed to settle the disputes with other complainants also. He further states that the main application for bail, which is pending before the Additional Sessions Judge, Saket, is stated to be coming up for hearing on 19th January, 2019.
5. In the above facts and circumstances and also taking into
consideration the submissions made by the learned Senior counsel/learned counsel appearing for the parties, and particularly the fact that the order dated 16032018 passed by the High Court does not give any valid reason to interfere with the order passed by the Additional Sessions Judge, Saket Court, we set aside the impugned order passed by the High Court setting aside the order dated 08032018 of the Additional Sessions Judge, Saket. Respondent No.2 is,therefore, directed to surrender forthwith, failing which the concerned Police Authorities shall take him into custody.
6. The Trial Court, where the matter is stated to be coming up for
hearing on 19th January, 2019, is at liberty to consider the application
for bail of Respondent No.2 on its own merits independently and in
accordance with law.
7. Before parting with this matter, we make it clear that we have not
expressed any opinion on the merits of the case.
8. The appeal is allowed in the afore-stated terms.
