Earlier defendant-respondents herein brought suit No. 1365/81 for
declaration that they have become owners of the land on the basis of adverse
possession. In para 5 of the plaint, it was averred that the defendants in the
suit were paid a sum of Rs. 1,98,000/- in equal share. The defendants also
agreed to get the necessary correction made in the record in favour of the
plaintiff with regard to the suit land, but they have now refused to admit the
claim of the plaintiff. A written statement was filed by the plaintiffappellant
herein, who was the defendant in suit No. 1365/81 wherein the
claim of the plaintiff in the said suit was admitted. On the basis of the said
admission, the suit was decreed by the trial court on 13.11.81. It is also
admitted between the parties that neither any appeal was preferred against
the judgment of the Trial Court nor any application to set aside the decree
was filed by the defendant in the said suit and the decree has attained
finality. Subsequently, in the year 1982, the plaintiff-appellant herein,
brought a suit for declaration that decree passed in suit No. 1365/81 was
void and nullity on the ground that it was obtained by fraud. The trial court
dismissed the suit. However, on appeal, the first appellate court allowed the
appeal and decreed the suit in favour of the plaintiff-appellant on 30.7.87.
Against the said judgment, the defendants preferred a second appeal. The
High Court allowed the second appeal and set aside the judgment and order
of the first appellate court. It is against the said judgment, the appellant has
preferred this appeal.
Learned counsel appearing for the appellant urged that the decree
passed in suit No. 1365/81 was void, having obtained by fraud and,
therefore, it could be avoided under Section 44 of the Evidence Act. We do
not find any merit in the argument. It may be stated that the plaintiff was the
defendant in the suit No. 1365/81 filed by the respondents. In the said suit,
the claim of the respondents was admitted by the present plaintiff-appellant
and on the basis of the said admission, the suit was decreed. In case the
present appellant was not satisfied with the decree, either he could have filed
an appeal or moved an application for setting aside the decree alleged to
have been obtained by fraud. Before the first appellate court, the plaintiffappellant
stated that there was no fraud in passing the decree in suit No.
1365/81, but the appellate court set aside the decree of the trial court on the
ground that the decree was a sale only to overcome the provisions of the
Indian Registration Act. This view of the appellate court was not correct. A
consent decree passed by the court is not required to be registered under the
provisions of the Indian Registration Act and, therefore, the view taken by
the first appellate court was not legally correct and has been rightly set
aside by the High Court. We are, therefore, in agreement with the view
taken by the High Court.
Consequently, this appeal fails and is, accordingly, dismissed. There
shall be no order as to costs.