Three appellants before us were arrayed
alongwith two more additional accused before the
Sessions Court for facing a charge of murder of one
Lokesh on the night of 26.7.1993. The trial court
acquitted all the five accused arrayed before it. When
the State filed an appeal against all of them a Division
Bench of the High Court confirmed the acquittal in
favour of fourth and fifth persons arrayed, but reversed
the order of acquittal as against the present three
appellants who were ranked A1 to A3 respectively in the
trial court. The Division Bench convicted them under
Sec.302 and 341 read with Sec.34 of the Indian Penal
Code and sentenced each of them to undergo rigourous
imprisonment for life in respect of the principal
offence. Hence they preferred this appeal as of right.
-2-
Lokesh was a tailor by profession. He was
running a tailoring mart at Pandavapura (VN Mandya
District, Karnataka). He fell in love with one
Prabhavathi (PW.2). The love affair reached flash point
and both of them contemplated solemnisation of marriage
between them. ( A.1-Babu and A.2-Sundra are the
maternal uncles of Prabhavathi. A.3 Vasu is brother of
Prabhavathi.) Those appellants did not approve the idea
of Lokesh, a tailor marrying their niece Prabhavathi.
But by-passing all the objections of the appellants
Prabhavathi eloped with Lokesh on 9.5.1993 and got the
marriage solemnised as between them at a place called
Dharamsthala. On coming to know of this marriage the
ire of the appellants towards the deceased became more
aggravated. This is said to be the motive for the
appellants to plan for the murder of the deceased.
The incident of murder happened, according to
the prosecution, in the following manner: Just before
deceased closed down his tailoring mart on the evening
of 26.7.1993 his friends PW.1 - Mahalingam and PW.3 -
Kumareshan visited the shop and had a chitchat with the
deceased. After the shop was closed all the three set
-3-
out to reach home. When they reached the place of
occurrence they were confronted by the just appellant
(A.1-Babu) who came from the opposite side. On seeing
the deceased, first accused Babu took out a knife and
inflicted a stab injury on his abdomen. Suddenly, the
assailant was caught hold by PW.3 - Kumareshan. At this
stage A.2-Sundra and A.3-Vasu reached the spot and they
caught PW.3 presumably for attempting to free their
associate A.1 from the grip of PW.3. A.1-Babu
extricated himself from the clutches of PW.3. In the
meanwhile the deceased, having sustained a minor injury
on his abdomen, started running away but he was chased
by A.1 Babu and succeeded in catching him and stabbed
him on the chest with a knife. It was a fatal blow.
With that injury the deceased fell down. A.1-Babu then
ran away from the scene followed by the other two
appellants.
Lokesh was then removed to the nearby hospital,
but he succumbed to his injuries on the same night. At
about 10.00 p.m. PW.1 lodged an F.I.R. with the Police
Station. Investigation was taken up by
PW.18-K.Sannegowda and appellants were arrested on
2.8.1993, and after completing it five persons were
charge-sheeted including the appellants.
-4-
Though many witnesses were examined by the
prosecution we are only concerned with two eye witnesses
who are PW.1-Mahalingam and Pw.3-Kumareshan. We have
narrated the prosecution story spoken to by those two
witnesses. Even on a cursory look at the fabric of the
prosecution story we find it extremely difficult to
sustain the conviction of A.2-Sundra and A.3-Vasu with
the help of Sec.34 of the IPC. The only role attributed
to them is this:
They arrived at the scene at a time when A.1 was
being caught hold of by PW.3. By then A.1 had already
inflicted one stab injury on the deceased. A.2 and A.2
separated PW.3 and A.1 from each other, and thereafter
A.1 alone chased the deceased. There is no indication
any where in evidence that the chase was made on the
instigation of the other two accused or that they did
anything to facilitate the further acts committed by
A.1.
An order of acquittal made by the trial court in
favour of A.2 and A.3 has been reversed merely on the
above role ascribed to them by the prosecution. Its
hard consequence was that those two were convicted of
-5-
the offence under Sec.302 with the aid of Sec.34 of the
IPC. No court could have possibly convicted those two
accused on the fact situation in this case. We are
distressed that the conviction against them was passed
in such a situation by reversing the acquittal ordered
by the trial court.
But the position regarding A.1-Babu is totally
different. The role attributed to him is very serious.
At the sight of the deceased, A.1 whipped out his knife
and inflicted a stab injury on the stomach and later
when A.1 was freed from the clutches of PW.3, he chased
the running away deceased and intercepted him and again
stabbed him, this time the assailant inflicted the fatal
stab on him. If this version of the prosecution is true
then A.1 cannot possibly escape from the conviction for
the offence under Sec.302 of IPC.
The above version had been spoken to by PW.1 and
PW.3 with all the vivid details. They were
cross-examined at length in the trial court. The
Sessions Judge expressed the comment that they were
highly interested witnesses and hence their evidence was
not reliable. In what manner they are interested as
against the accused in the case is not understandable to
-6-
us. If their friendship with the deceased was taken as
the ground for being dubbed as interested witness, we
cannot approve the same. Their friendship with the
deceased was the cause of their presence at the shop of
the deceased on the night. That apart, it was not shown
by the defence as to what interest those two witnesses
had for bringing the appellants to conviction in this
case. Hence the remark made by the trial court that
those two witnesses were interested witnesses has to be
disapproved.
Another reason highlighted by the Sessions Judge
was this: According to PW.3 Kumreshan when deceased was
brought to the hospital police reached the hospital and
he saw PW.1 making a statement to the police. Learned
Sessions Judge pointed out that if that be so the FIR
recorded at 10.00 p.m. on the same night at the police
station at the instance of PW.1 should be looked upon
with suspicion. The above reasoning of the Sessions
Judge is unworthy of any merit. Even if PW.3 had seen
some policemen at the hospital that need not be a sequal
to the police receiving any information about the case.
-7-
Police an go to the Government hospital for a variety of
reasons and even if PW.1 talked to one of them how could
that be a reason for holding that FIR would not have
been lodged at the police station before the Station
House Officer? We have no doubt that the High Court has
correctly dissented f rom the above reasoning.
The third reasoning advanced by the Sessions
Judge, for, jettisoning the testimony of the two eye
witnesses is that PW.12-Doctor (who conducted the
autopsy) noted semi-digested food materials in the
stomach of the dead body. Why should those two eye
witnesses be disbelieved if the deceased had taken some
food before those two witnesses reached his tailoring
mart? The time for evacuation of fully digested food
materials from the stomach into the small intestine
would vary from person to person and also depending upon
food materials consumed, apart from many other
gastrological factors. The mere fact that semi-digested
food materials were found in the stomach of the deceased
cannot rule out the possibility of the deceased taking
food before the arrival of PW.1 and 2 at the tailoring
mart. Even that apart, what is there to show that they
-8-
would not have taken some food when they were in the
tailoring mart itself, or that the deceased alone would
have taken it during that time. Whatever that be, the
reasoning built up on the strength of presence of
semi-digested food materials in the stomach of the
deceased is too fragile for the Sessions Court to reject
the testimony of two eye witnesses.
The last attempt made by Mr. K.Rajendra
Chaudhary, learned senior counsel for the appellants to
cast some doubt on the testimony of those two witnesses
was by suggesting that deceased would have carried with
him the money collected during the day and the key of
the shop but those were not found with the deceased at
the time of the incident. We are not impressed by the
said contention also. Firstly, no question had been put
to PW.2-Prabhavathi as to the practice which deceased
might have been following while returning home.
Secondly there is no reliable material to show that
deceased had not possessed those two things at the time
of the occurrence. Hence the above argument is too
insufficient for us to throw the testimony of the two
eye witnesses overboard.
-9-
The above discussion would lead us to the
conclusion that the High Court has meritoriously
interfered with the order of acquittal passed on the
first accused and convicted him of the offence under
Sec.302 IPC.
In the result we allow this appeal in favour of
A.2-Sundra and A.3-Vasu and set aside the conviction and
sentence passed on them and we acquit them and direct
them to be released forthwith from the jail unless they
are required in any other case. However we confirm the
conviction and sentence passed on A.1 and dismiss the
appeal as against him. This appeal is disposed of
accordingly.
