The legal position, therefore, is this: though the power to suspend an order of conviction, apart
from the order of sentence, is not alien to Section 389(1) of the Code, its exercise should be limited
to very exceptional cases. Merely because the convicted person files an appeal in challenge of the
conviction the court should not suspend the operation of the order of conviction. The court has a
duty to look at all aspects including the ramifications of keeping such conviction in abeyance. It is in
the light of the above legal position that we have to examine the question as to what should be the
position when a public servant is convicted of an offence under the PC Act. No doubt when the
appellate court admits the appeal filed in challenge of the conviction and sentence for the offence
under the PC Act, the superior court should normally suspend the sentence of imprisonment until
disposal of the appeal, because refusal thereof would render the very appeal otiose unless such appeal could be heard soon after the filing of the appeal. But suspension of conviction of the offence
under the PC Act, dehors the sentence of imprisonment as a sequel thereto, is a different matter."
(emphasis supplied) In the said judgment of K.C. Sareen (supra), this Court has held that it is only
in very exceptional cases that the court should exercise such power of stay in matters arising out of
the Act. The High Court has in the impugned order nowhere pointed out what is the exceptional fact
which in its opinion required it to stay the conviction. The High Court also failed to note the
direction of this Court that it has a duty to look at all aspects including ramification of keeping such
conviction in abeyance. The High Court, in our opinion, has not taken into consideration any of the
above factors while staying the conviction. It should also be noted that the view expressed by this
Court in K.C. Sareen's case (supra) was subsequently approved followed by the judgment of this
Court in Union of India v. Atar Singh & Anr. [JT 2001 (10) SC 212].
For the reasons stated above, these appeals succeed. The impugned orders are set aside and the
appeals are allowed.