In view of the foregoing discussion, we are of the firm opinion that the object with which right
under Section 50(1) of the NDPS Act, by way of a safeguard, has been conferred on the suspect, viz.
to check the misuse of power, to avoid harm to innocent persons and to minimise the allegations of
planting or foisting of false cases by the law enforcement agencies, it would be imperative on the
part of the empowered officer to apprise the person intended to be searched of his right to be
searched before a gazetted officer or a Magistrate. We have no hesitation in holding that in so far as
the obligation of the authorised officer under sub-section (1) of Section 50 of the NDPS Act is
concerned, it is mandatory and requires a strict compliance. Failure to comply with the provision
would render the recovery of the illicit article suspect and vitiate the conviction if the same is recorded only on the basis of the recovery of the illicit article from the person of the accused during
such search. Thereafter, the suspect may or may not choose to exercise the right provided to him
under the said provision. As observed in Re Presidential Poll14, it is the duty of the courts to get at
the real intention of the Legislature by carefully attending to the whole scope of the provision to be
construed. "The key to the opening of every law is the reason and spirit of the law, it is the animus
imponentis, the intention of the law maker expressed in the law itself, taken as a whole." We are of
the opinion that the concept of "substantial compliance" with the requirement of Section 50 of the
NDPS Act introduced and read into the mandate of the said Section in Joseph Fernandez (supra)
and Prabha Shankar Dubey (supra) is neither borne out from the language of sub-section (1) of
Section 50 nor it is in consonance with the dictum laid down in Baldev Singh's case (supra).
Needless to add that the question whether or not the procedure prescribed has been followed and
the requirement of Section 50 had been met, is a matter of trial. It would neither be possible nor
feasible to lay down any absolute formula in that behalf. We also feel that though Section 50 gives an
option to the empowered officer to take such person (suspect) either before the nearest gazetted
officer or the Magistrate but in order to impart authenticity, transparency and creditworthiness to
the entire proceedings, in the first instance, an endeavour should be to produce the suspect before
the nearest Magistrate, who enjoys more confidence of (1974) 2 SCC 33 the common man compared
to any other officer. It would not only add legitimacy to the search proceedings, it may verily
strengthen the prosecution as well.Accordingly, we answer the reference in the manner aforesaid. The appeals shall, now, be placed
before the appropriate Bench for disposal.