The reporter and accused were having friendly
relationship and then relationship breakup
which reached
upto the marriage proposal and then the disputed episode
started. The reporter received emails on the given dates, the
reporter approached investigating machinery, investigating
machinery after making inquiries and technical investigation
reached to the end of accused, the Investigating Officer further
carried out technical investigation, forwarded investigation like
seizure of harddisk,
where from the disputed emails were

sent, got it the confirmed that traces of disputed emails are
found out in it. In this course, the disclosure statement given
by accused, opening the disputed email having unique
password which can be only within knowledge of accused, the
investigating officer discovered fact that the disputed emails
were sent from this email id and its traces were found in sent
box of the email id open by the accused which he was having
exclusive control. If all these circumstances are considered
together, I find that it is created unbreaked
chain of
circumstances which is pointing out towards guilt of accused
while committing the offence punishable under section 509 of
Indian Penal Code, by use of web and technology related to it.
38. Here, it can be gathered from evidence that
accused intentionally and knowingly intervened privacy of
reporter which attracts provisions of section 66E of Information
Technology Act. As far as charge under section 67 and 67A
is
concerned, I find that evidence as to publishing open sexual
desire is short in present case to lead any other person than
reporter so I hold that offence under section 67 and 67A
is not
established beyond reasonable doubt but it attracts 66E as
referred above. Though charge under section 66E
is not
framed specifically, I find that offence under section 66E
being
having less punishment than punishment in sections 67 and
67A, accused can be dealt for said charge. Here I find that by
charge of section 509 of Indian Penal Code, accused was
having knowledge about his defence and so by holding him
guilty for offence under section 66E, no prejudice will cause to

defence. Hence, I answer point no. 1 in affirmative and point
no. 2, as offence under section 67 and 67A
is not proved but
offence under section 66E
of Information Technology Act is
established. So I hold that prosecution has established offence
punishable under section 509 of Indian Penal Code and section
66 (E) of Information Technology Act, I hold accused in guilt of
above said offences and convict him.
 Advocate Farzana for accused present in court at
12.20 p.m.. Accused is absent. So further dictation on point of
hearing on sentence will proceed. Advocate Farzana submitted
that accused is coming at 01.00 p.m., so further dictation is
deferred.
Mumbai (M.R. Natu)
Date : 03/07/2015 Addl. Chief Metropolitan Magistrate
37th Court, Esplanade, Mumbai
40. At 01.00 accused present in court and judgment
continued.
 Heard accused on the point of sentence. He
submitted that he is the only earning member in his family. His
family i.e. his wife, mother and father are dependent on him,
so leniency may be shown to him. Ld. Advocate for accused
submitted that accused is Engineer by conviction his life will be
spoiled and by taking lenient view, accused may be punished
imposing fine only. Ld. APP submitted that the offence has
been committed by use of web, cyber crimes are increasing and
so to curb out tendency of committing offence by using the

technology, deterrent punishment is necessary.
 Upon hearing either parties on point of sentence
and looking in the peculiar circumstances of this case, that
privacy of woman has been intruded by the accused here
required some substantial sentence. But, if we see the
mitigating circumstance as to fact that there were relationship
between reporter and accused which reached upto the extent
of giving proposal of marriage and the fact that now both are
leading independent marital life, the accused being Engineer
and bread winner of his family, in my humble opinion
following sentence will suffice purpose of justice. In result, I
proceed to pass the following order:
O R D E R
 Accused Yogisha @ Yogesh Pandurang Prabhu is
convicted for offence punishable under section 509 of
Indian Penal Code and section 66(E) of Information
Technology Act, vide section 248(2) of Code of Criminal
Procedure.
Accused is sentenced to suffer simple imprisonment for 1
(one) month for offence punishable under section 509 of
Indian Penal Code and to pay fine of Rs. 5,000/(
Rs.Five Thousand only) in default to suffer simple
imprisonment for one (1) month.

 Accused is sentenced to suffer simple imprisonment for 3
(three) months for offence punishable under section
66(E) of Information Technology Act and to pay fine of
Rs.10,000/(
Rupees Ten Thousand only) in default to
suffer simple imprisonment for 2 (two) months.
 Both the substantive sentences shall run concurrently.
 Accused shall surrender his bail bond in court.
 Property hard disk shall be returned to the Anil Vishnu
Mandoskar who is the Managing Director of Wam
Bombay. Order as to disposal of property shall operate
after appeal period is over.Copy of this judgment be provided to accused free of
cost. Pronounced in open court