It is pointed out by the learned counsel appearing for
the respondent(s) that as against A2, Mohmed Abdul Rauf s/o.
Mohmed Abdul Kadar, A3, Mohmed Shafiuddin s/o. Late Yusuf Ali
and A12, Shah Navaz Gandhi s/o. Mohmed Gandhi there was
acquittal by the Trial Court except under the provisions of
Section 3(3) of the Prevention of Terrorism Act, 2002 (for
short ‘POTA’).
A-2, Mohmed Abdul Rauf s/o. Mohmed Abdul Kadar and A-12,
Shah Navaz Gandhi s/o. Mohmed Gandhi were acquitted by the
appellate Court for the offences under Sections 302, 307 and
120B IPC. They were also given benefit of doubt for the
offences under Section 3(3) of the Prevention of Terrorism
Act, 2002.
Whereas A-3, Mohmed Shafiuddin s/o. Late Yusuf Ali was
found guilty by the Trial Court for offences under Section
120B read with Section 307 of the IPC and has been given
benefit of doubt for all the offences he has been charged with
under the POTA as well as the IPC.
Following is the extract of the operative portion of the
order passed by the Trial Court:-
“A-2, Mohmed Abdul Rauf s/o. Mohmed Abdul Kadar
2
and A-12, Shah Navaz Gandhi s/o. Mohmed Gandhi are
held guilty for the offence punishable u/s.3(3) of
the Prevention of Terrorism Act and are given
benefit of doubt of all the other offences under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act as well as under the
Indian Penal Code.
A-3, Mohmed Shafiuddin s/o. Late Yusuf Ali is
held guilty for the offence punishable u/s. 120-B
read with Section 307 of I.P.C. and is given benefit
of doubt of all the offences he has been charged
with under the Prevention of Terrorism Act as well
as under the Indian Penal Code.”
Admittedly, there was no appeal preferred against the
acquittal of the afore-mentioned three accused persons of the
aforesaid sections.
Against the conviction of A-2, Mohmed Abdul Rauf s/o.
Mohmed Abdul Kadar under Section 3(3) of the the Prevention
of Terrorism Act, 2002, the question before us is whether the
order of sentence imposed by the Trial Court was proper or the
sentence reduced by the appellate Court has to be affirmed.
Arguments on behalf of the respondent(s) heard, which
remained inconclusive.
For further hearing, list on 22.01.2019, as part heard.
