We have heard learned counsel for the parties.
A departmental enquiry was held against the
respondent on certain charges levelled against him.
Broadly speaking, the charges were that the respondent
had opened up an account and he made fraudulent credits
into that account. Thereafter, he withdrew the amount
and in fact sought to transfer the amount withdrawn to
some other bank.
At this stage, it may be mentioned that the
respondent was the Manager of that particular branch.
A departmental enquiry was held against the
respondent in which he was found guilty of the
allegations made against him. The Disciplinary Authority
considered the enquiry report and directed his compulsory
retirement from service.
2
Feeling aggrieved, the respondent preferred
departmental appeal which was dismissed. Thereafter, he
preferred a writ petition which came to be dismissed by
the learned Single Judge.
Against the judgment and order dated 22nd March, 2002
passed by the learned Single Judge, the respondent
preferred a writ appeal being W.A. No.1312 of 2005. The
writ appeal was allowed by a judgment and order dated 7th
August, 2009 passed by the Division Bench of the Madras
High Court.
The primary reason on the basis of which the writ
appeal was allowed, as noted by the Division Bench, is
that the handwriting expert was not examined by the
Enquiry Officer.
There is no doubt that even if the handwriting expert
had not been examined, there was enough material to show
that the respondent had fraudulently opened a bank
account and he made credits into that account. Being the
Manager of the particular Branch, whether a handwriting
expert was examined or not is insignificant given the
facts of the case. Therefore, in our view, the Division
Bench erred in placing undue reliance on the fact that
the handwriting expert was not examined. There was
enough material even otherwise to indicate the complicity
of the respondent in the transaction that had taken
place. Apart from that we may note that it has been the
3
consistent view of this Court that where an employee of a
bank is involved in any fraudulent transaction, it is
necessary to put him through the strict scrutiny test
since the bank employee deals with the finances of the
customers and, therefore, he is expected to be extra
careful in matters of this nature.
This Court has also consistently held that it would
not be appropriate for the High Court to interfere in the
award of punishment unless it is grossly disproportionate
or perverse.
Insofar as the present case is concerned, the
respondent was not only an employee of the bank, but also
the Manager of the concerned Branch. He should have been
far more careful rather be than involved in a dubious
transaction which could land him into difficulties, such
as opening of fraudulent bank account and making credits
into that account.
In our view, the Division Bench of the High Court was
also in error in interfering with the punishment awarded.
The Disciplinary Authority did not award the punishment
of dismissal but only awarded compulsory retirement.
There was no occasion for the Division Bench to set aside
the proceedings before the Enquiry Officer and to have
ordered reinstatement of the respondent.
4
Under the circumstances, the appeal is allowed and
the order passed by the Division Bench is set aside and
the order passed by the learned Single Judge is restored.
